This project uses the cmake build tools for simplified cross
compatibility.  In order to build the project by hand please make sure
that you have installed the following prerequisites:
 - gcc or clang or xcode command line tools
 - cmake
 - git
 - libusb (v1.0 or later preferred)
 - swig
 - python-dev

Specifically swig and python-dev are required for building the Python
interface, but that is only necessary for updating device firmware or
if you wish to write your own Python scripts that interact with the
device.

The source code provided here compiles into:

 - igdaemon - A daemon on *nix or a service on Windows that
       coordinates access between multiple clients to one or more
       IguanaWorks USB infrared devices.  On Linux a kernel driver
       also exists.

 - igclient - A command line application for interacting with the
       igdaemon in relatively simple ways.  This can be used to
       receive raw pulse/space signals or send similar among other
       tasks.

 - libiguanaIR.so - A C library, used by igclient, to interact with
       igdaemon.  For more complex tasks developers may want to
       interface with this library.  The API is described in
       iguanaIR.h.

 - iguanaIR.py / _iguanaIR.so - An optional Python (2 or 3) wrapper
       for the libiguanaIR.so library for writing Python scripts that
       interact with IguanaWorks infrared hardware via the API and
       igdaemon.  This wrapper is required by the iguanaIR-reflasher
       for updating device firmware.

 - lirc-drv-iguanair - An optional LIRC plugin to allow a user to
       connect LIRC to the IguanaWorks infrared hardware via the
       igdaemon.  On Linux this can also be done via a kernel module.

The command line steps to build these tools are as follows:
 1) cd software/usb_ir
 2) ./runCmake
 3) make -C build
 4) make -C build install
 5) cd ../lirc-drv-iguanair
 6) make
 7) make install

Step 2) should print missing prerequisites and note what can be built
based on what prerequisites were found.  If swig or Python development
libraries are not found then the iguanaIR.py Python module will not be
built.

Please take a look at the IguanaWorks support page if you have further
questions:
  https://www.iguanaworks.net/support/
